

Docker


Story of containers
Solution:
	- VM approch 
	- container approch

what is docker and what are advantanges of docker when compared to VMs
How to developers and Operation works
Installation of docker.
Understadaing images,containers and registries

Method to create images
1. Downloading the images to docker.io
2. Creating a Docker images.

Usecase: Downloading a image from docker.io
Explaining the Image attributes

Creating a container from the image using docker pull
Exiting from the container.
Understading the docker file
Building a container from docker file





Notes

#Docker containers
Docker containers are a means to package applications and their dependencies in a standardized way. Docker then coined the phrase—Build, ship and run anywhere
There are two flavors of Docker to consider: Docker Enterprise Edition, or Docker EE, and Docker Community Edition


#Containers vs VMs
Containers are lightweight,consume less CPU RAM and disk resources 
standizes packings for software and its dependencies
provides faster deployment and restart easier migration less overhead


#How to developers and Operation works
Developers can focus on bundling applications and dependencies as containers, without agonizing over underlying hardware/infrastructure
Administrators/DevOps team can concentrate on managing containers, without agonizing over the contents of those containers.

#Images,containers and registeries 

Images 
An image is a static representation of the app or service and its configuration and dependencies.
An image is an instance of a container
When an image is started, it gives running container of an image.
A Docker image is built up from a series of layers, allowing a minimal amount of data to be sent when transferring images over network.
Images are stored in a registry such as docker hub

Containers
Container is runtime object or representation of an image.
Containers are lightweight & portable encapsulation of  an environment where applications are run

#Registers
Images are stored in a registry



#Downloading a images
docker run -d -p 801:2368 f3b796dbbc45
